Open Blues - Dance in Poland

Search this site

Embedded Files

Skip to main content

Skip to navigation

Open Blues - Dance in Poland

Open Blues - Dance in Poland

August 27th - 31st, 2026

Blues & Fusion. Live music. 100% DIY

Register ✒️

You're lucky! Early Birds discounts are on!

2026 Info Booklet

About

Open Blues is a non-profit do-it-yourself festival. The main organisers deal with renting the venue, registrations, scheduling and some logistics, but music, workshops, cooking and merriment is crowdsourced! 
Why don’t we follow the usual workshop format and invite some star teachers and segregate dancer beginner to advanced?
The simple answer is this: There are hundreds of such events in Europe anyway and they are all very good in satisfying the need for top-down instruction (and we’ll have some star teachers at Open Blues too!). Yet, there is little horizontal and inter-community exchange outside of the social dance floor. Let’s fix this!
Whatever your dance passion is bring it to Open Blues, if you think it might enrich the community. You can request a very limited time frame (e.g. 30 minutes) or a bigger workshop (e.g. 90 minutes), you can lead it on your own or with your friends, with instruments or without, you can create a space for experimentation or give a traditional class etc.

Venue

Piotrowice Nyskie Palace is in Silesia. The nearest airports are Wrocław (PL), Ostrava (CZ), Pardubice (CZ), Katowice (PL), Brno (CZ). The nearest transportation hub is in Nysa, a 20 minute drive from the Palace.
Open Blues takes place at a beautiful and historically rich palace, which fell into disrepair during the Soviet rule over Poland 1945-89. It was bought by a Polish-British couple, Anna and Jim, who are now renovating it with much love. They make it available for visitors and cultural events. This unfinished palace is their home; a home they want to share. The palace has a raw feel that invites experimentation, so feel free to explore. However, remember to respect Anna’s and Jim’s privacy!
Here is what Anna & Jim have to say about their home:
The house dates from around 1300, but with a rebuild every 100 years or so, it’s hard to say which bit was built when. Architectural historians and archaeologists love the questions this building asks, and we don’t yet have all the answers. There are frescoes, glorious Renaissance painted ceilings, and sgraffito (a plaster technique). The working chapel (it’s the village church, Mass twice a week) has an impressive baroque altar-piece, recently restored.
In 2012, our on-going restoration was short-listed for a prestigious Europa Nostra/European Union Award for the Protection of Cultural Heritage (the only Polish project so honoured). There is still work in progress, so we didn’t win. Nonetheless, we are proud of getting close, and we love to talk about our Big House Project with guests. 

Food

We cook all of our food together. All food is vegan or vegetarian.
There is a small shop but no supermarket in the village, the nearest one is a 15 minutes drive away.

Financials

We run this non-profit. Our costs are roughly this:
Bands 15%
Food 37%
Venue 40%
Misc 8%
We try to have a 5-10% buffer which we reinvest into the next editions.

FAQ

What are the workshops and who are the teachers?

This is a DIY festival and all activities are community-led, so we usually only find out very late and there are many changes, so we don't advertise the exact workshops before the festival. If you'd like to lead a workshop, get in touch! Open Blues attracts top dancers from all over the world.

Can I arrive earlier or stay longer?

Yes, you can. Some of us will be there Monday onwards and some will only leave on Monday. An additional night costs €20-50 depending on your choice and does not include food. Please resolve these directly with Jim or Anna.

Can I bring pets or children?

Yes, as long as they don't bother the farm animals. There are geese, chickens, turkeys (RIP🙏), dogs and cats. And people.

I have a pet or dust allergy. Can I come?

The place is a farm, so there are lots of animals and some places are dusty. However, there are rarely any animals in the ballroom and in the upstairs rooms, but sometimes there can be.

What's the Reservation Payment about?

We need it as a guarantee to cover our fixed costs. It's non-refundable, but you can find someone to take your spot. 

What are the accommodation options like?

Read more in the Booklet.

Who runs the event?

This is a private party and camp run by a group of blues dancing enthusiasts.

What are the food options?

We all cook together as a communal activity. All food is made with love, cruelty-free and vegan.

How can I get there?

The best option is by car, or sharing a ride with someone who does. Fill out the ridesharing and travel buddy form to find someone. Alternatively, you can travel by train to Nysa, and ask to be picked up by someone at the festival or get a taxi from Nysa (this would cost around 30-50 EUR).

UNLICENSE | Feel free to use anything found here | Isabella Larsen & Konrad Urban. Hosting sponsored by Peanut

Google Sites

Report abuse

Page details

Page updated

Google Sites

Report abuse

This site uses cookies from Google to deliver its services and to analyze traffic. Information about your use of this site is shared with Google. By using this site, you agree to its use of cookies.
Learn more
Got it
